1. closure

   1. It's called a "closure" because it's said to bind its surrounding artifacts (ie, variables, methods, objects, etc) and build an "enclosure" around everything so that they can be referenced when the closure is later executed.
   2. The only thing to remember is that this "chunk of code" retains references to its surrounding artifacts -- its **binding**.
      1. A closure retains access to variables, constants, and methods that were in scope at the time and location you created the closure. It binds some code with the in-scope items.
   3. There are three main ways to work with closures in Ruby
      1. Instantiating an object from the Proc class
      2. Using **lambdas**
      3. Using **blocks**

2. blocks

   1. In other words, our familiar method, `[1, 2, 3].each { |num| puts num }`, is actually *passing in* the block of code to the Array#each method
   2. blocks are just another argument being passed in to a method at method invocation time
   3. blocks can take arguments, just like normal methods. But unlike normal methods, it won't complain about wrong number of arguments passed to it.

3. yield

   1. The number of arguments at method invocation needs to match the method definition, regardless of whether we are passing in a block.

   2. The yield keyword executes the block.

   3. without argument

      ```ruby
      # method implementation
      def say(words)
        yield if block_given?
        puts "> " + words
      end
      
      # method invocation
      say("hi there") do
        system 'clear'
      end                                                # clears screen first, then outputs "> hi there"
      ```

      - Execution starts at method invocation, on line 8. The say method is invoked with two arguments: a string and a block (the block is an implicit parameter and not part of the method definition).
      - Execution goes to line 2, where the method local variable words is assigned the string "hi there". The block is passed in implicitly, without being assigned to a variable.
      - Execution continues into the first line of the method implementation, line 3, which immediately yields to the block.
      - The block, line 9, is now executed, which clears the screen.
      - After the block is done executing, execution continues in the method implementation on line 4. Executing line 4 results in output being displayed.
      - The method ends, which means the last expression's value is returned by this method. The last expression in the method invokes the puts method, so the return value for the method is nil.

   4. with an argument

      ```ruby
      # method implementation
      def increment(number)
        if block_given?
          yield(number + 1)
        end
        number + 1
      end
      
      # method invocation
      increment(5) do |num|
        puts num
      end
      ```

      - Execution starts at method invocation on line 10.
      - Execution moves to the method implementation on line 2, which sets 5 to the local variable number, and the block is not set to any variable; it's just implicitly available.
      - Execution continues on line 3, which is a conditional.
      - Our method invocation has indeed passed in a block, so the conditional is true, moving execution to line 4.
      - On line 4, execution is yielded to the block (or the block is called), and we're passing number + 1 to the block. This means we're calling the block with 6 as the block argument.
      - Execution jumps to line 10, where the block local variable num is assigned 6.
      - Execution continues to line 11, where we output the block local variable num.
      - Execution continues to line 12, where the end of the block is reached.
      - Execution now jumps back to the method implementation, where we just finished executing line 4.
      - Execution continues to line #5, the end of the if.
      - Line 6 returns the value of the incremented argument to line 10.
      - The program ends (the return value of #increment is not used)

   5. The rules regarding the number of arguments that you can pass to a block, Proc, or lambda in Ruby is called its *arity*. In Ruby, blocks have lenient arity rules, which is why it doesn't complain when you pass in different number of arguments. It means that blocks don't enforce argument count, unlike normal methods in Ruby.

   6. Return value of yielding to the block

      1. they have a return value, and that return value is determined based on the last expression in the block
      2. This implies that just like normal methods, blocks can either mutate the argument with a destructive method call or the block can return a value.

4. The use case of Block

   1. Defer some implementation code to method invocation decision.
      1. If you encounter a scenario where you're calling a method from multiple places, with one little tweak in each case, it may be a good idea to try implementing the method in a generic way by yielding to a block.
   2. Methods that need to perform some "before" and "after" actions - sandwich code.
      1. Timing, logging, notification systems are all examples where before/after actions are important.
      2. Another area where before/after actions are important is in resource management, or interfacing with the operating system.

5. Methods with an explicit block parameter

   ```ruby
   def test(&block)
     puts "What's &block? #{block}"
   end
   
   test { sleep(1) }
   
   # What's &block? #<Proc:0x007f98e32b83c8@(irb):59>
   # => nil
   ```

   As you can see, the block local variable is now a Proc object. Note that we can name it whatever we please; it doesn't have to be block, just as long as we define it with a leading &.

   ```ruby
   def test2(block)
     puts "hello"
     block.call                    # calls the block that was originally passed to test()
     puts "good-bye"
   end
   
   def test(&block)
     puts "1"
     test2(block)
     puts "2"
   end
   
   test { puts "xyz" }
   # => 1
   # => hello
   # => xyz
   # => good-bye
   # => 2
   ```

   - Note that you only need to use & for the block parameter in #test. Since block is already a Proc object when we call test2, no conversion is needed.
   - Note that we also use block.call inside test2 to invoke the Proc instead of yield. (If you wanted to invoke the Proc from test, you would do the same thing: block.call.)
   - For now, you just need to know that Ruby converts blocks passed in as explicit blocks to a simple Proc object (this is why we need to use #call to invoke the Proc object).
   
6. Code explanation

   ```ruby
   # method implementation
   def times(number)
     counter = 0
     while counter < number do
       yield(counter)
       counter += 1
     end
   
     number                      # return the original method argument to match behavior of `Integer#times`
   end
   
   # method invocation
   times(5) do |num|
     puts num
   end
   
   # Output:
   # 0
   # 1
   # 2
   # 3
   # 4
   # => 5
   ```

   1. Method invocation starts at line 13, when the `times` method is called with an argument, `5`, and a block of code.
   2. Execution enters the first line of the method implementation at line 3, where the local variable `counter` is initialized.
   3. Execution continues to line 4. The `while` conditional is evaluated. The first time through, the condition is true.
   4. Execution continues to line 5, which yields to the block. This is the same as executing the block of code, and this time, we are executing the block of code with an argument. The argument to the block is the `counter`, which is `0` the first time through.
   5. Execution jumps to the block on line 13, setting `counter` to the block local variable `num`.
   6. Execution continues in the block to line 14, which outputs the block local variable `num`.
   7. Reaching the end of the block, execution continues back to the `times` method implementation on line 6, where the `counter` is incremented.
   8. Reaching the end of the `while` loop, execution continues on line 4, essentially repeating steps 3 through 7.
   9. At some point, the `while` conditional should return false (otherwise, you have an infinite loop), allowing execution to flow to line 9, which doesn't do anything.
   10. Reaching the end of the method at line 10, execution will return the last expression in this method, which is the `number` local variable.

7. binding, or surrounding environment/context

   ```ruby
   def call_me(some_code)
     some_code.call
   end
   
   name = "Robert"
   chunk_of_code = Proc.new {puts "hi #{name}"}
   name = "Griffin III"        # re-assign name after Proc initialization
   
   call_me(chunk_of_code)
   ```

   The output is

   ```ruby
   hi Griffin III
   => nil
   ```

   - So even re-assigning the variable after the Proc is initialized updates the chunk_of_code. This implies that the Proc keeps track of its surrounding context, and drags it around wherever the chunk of code is passed to. In Ruby, we call this its **binding**, or surrounding environment/context. A closure must keep track of its surrounding context in order to have all the information it needs in order to be executed later.
   - This is at the core of variable scoping rules in Ruby, and it's why "inner scopes can access outer scopes". 
   
8. the use of & with explicit blocks (&:to_s)

   1. Lesson 1 - Symbol to proc
   2. Ruby checks whether the object after & is a Proc. If it is, it uses the object as-is. Otherwise, it tries to call #to_proc on the object, which should return a Proc object. An error will occur if the #to_proc fails to return a Proc object.
   3. If all is well, the & turns the Proc into a block.

9. times

10. each

11. select

12. reduce

13. any?

    1. ```ruby
       def any?(collection)
         collection.each { |item| return true if yield(item) }
         false
       end
       ```

14. Some use case from Students

    1. ```ruby
       class Greeter
         def initialize(greeting)
           @greeting = greeting
         end
       
         def to_proc
           Proc.new {|name| "#{@greeting}, #{name}!"}
         end
       end
       
       hi = Greeter.new("Hi")
       p hi.to_proc.call("Jenae")
       p ["Jan", "Michael"].map(&hi)
       ```

    2. ```ruby
       class Multiplier
         def initialize(number)
           @number = number
         end
       
         def to_proc
           Proc.new { |n| @number * n}
         end
       end
       
       number = Multiplier.new(14)
       p [1, 3, 5].map(&number)
       p [13, 2, 6].map(&Multiplier.new(14))
       ```

15. test methods mentioned in the course

    1. assert_equal

    2. | Assertion                          | Description                                 |
       | :--------------------------------- | :------------------------------------------ |
       | `assert(test)`                     | Fails unless `test` is truthy.              |
       | `assert_equal(exp, act)`           | Fails unless `exp == act`.                  |
       | `assert_nil(obj)`                  | Fails unless `obj` is `nil`.                |
       | `assert_raises(*exp) { ... }`      | Fails unless block raises one of `*exp`.    |
       | `assert_instance_of(cls, obj)`     | Fails unless `obj` is an instance of `cls`. |
       | `assert_includes(collection, obj)` | Fails unless `collection` includes `obj`.   |

16. SEAT Approach

    1. Set up the necessary objects. (#setup)
    2. Execute the code against the object we're testing.
    3. Assert the results of the execution.
    4. Tear down and clean up any lingering artifacts. (#teardown)

17. The difference between `assert_equal` and `assert_same`

18. Code Coverage

    1. Note that even though we are only testing public code, code coverage is based on all of your code, both public and private. 
    2. Also, this doesn't mean every edge case is considered, or that even our program is working correctly. 
    3. It only means that we have some tests in place for every method.
    4. `simplecov`
